# Table of Contents
1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Inventory](#inventory)
    1.  [bin](#bin) 
    2.  [build](#build)
    3.  [codes](#codes)
    4.  [doc](#doc)
    5.  [ensembles](#ensembles)
    6.  [include](#include)
    7.  [itpp](#itpp)
    8.  [lib](#lib)
    9.  [params](#params)
    10. [prog](#prog)
    11. [scripts](#scripts)
    12. [src](#src)
    13. [trees](#trees)
3. [Installation and Usage](#installation-and-usage)
    1.  [Requirements](#requirements)
    2.  [Installation](#installation)
    3.  [Usage](#usage)

# Introduction
Explanation of program purpose and required

# Inventory

What are all those folders?

### bin
Binary executables  corresponding to the sources in `prog`. Generated by `make` if need be; not under version control.

### build
Location of compiled object files  corresponding to the sources in `src`. Generated by `make` if need be; not under version control.

### codes
This is where we save LDPC codes (and Generators)

### doc
This is where the Doxygen documentation will be saved (Not implemented yet)

### ensembles
This is where LDPC ensembles (text files containing degree distributions are saved)

### include
Header directory

### itpp 
Location of the it++ library source, handled by a Git submodule, c.f. [IT++ Submodule](#it-submodule)

### lib
Directory for third party libraries (mainly itpp). Generated by `make` if need be; not under version control.

### params
Contains example parameter files for the program(s)

### prog
Contains the source code for executables with a `main()` function

### scripts
Various scripts, e.g. for evaluating and plotting BER simulation results or running simulations on an HTCondor cluster

### src
Contains the source code of the application modules, excluding executables with a `main()` function

### trees
This is where we save tree structures for the LUT based decoders



# Installation and Usage

## Requirements
The program has been tested on MacOSX and Linux, but with minor modification, will most likely also run on Windows. To compile you need the static
versions of the following libraries:
* it++ and its dependencies
* boost
* pthreads
* Soon: glpk

## Installation

To install all the modules, simply type `make`. 
This will compile the itpp library (note that all binaries and headers of the itpp library are installed to the `lib` subdirectory;
nothing is installed to standard locations such as `/usr/local/include`, `/usr/local/lib` etc...). 
Furthermore, you can pass the following options to `make`
* `BUILD_TYPE=Release` (default: `Debug`)

This will compile and link the program. The corresponding executable can be found in prog.

## Usage
Consult the  `README.md` file of the `prog` folder


# IT++ Submodule
This software includes the [IT++ Library](http://itpp.sourceforge.net/4.3.1/) as a [git submodule](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules) in order to get access to and alter certain internals of the IT++ Library.
Since submodules are not cloned by default, use
```
git submodule init
git submodule update
```
if you already cloned this repository or 
```
git clone --recursive <URL>
```
if you did not clone it yet. After you did that, you can start using the software. New changes of the submodule can be
pulled in via `git submodule update --remote` 

## Changing the IT++ Submodul
Navigate into `cpp/itpp` ans issue `git status`. You can see that git complains about being in a detached head state. 
The reason for this is the way submodules work: The parent repository only saves a reference (commit-id) to the current commit of the
submodule. If you checkout the submodule, its head is set to this very commit. In order to create a local branch, type
``` git checkout -b ldpc-lut --track origin/ldpc-lut ```
This creates the local branch `ldpc-lut`, makes it point to the commit-id of the submodule and tells git that the
local branch `ldpc-lut` is supposed to track the remote branch `origin/ldpc-lut`.
You can now make changes to the submodule and push them upstream, given that you have write access to the submodule repo.
To get write access to the submodule containing the altered version of IT++ contact [Michael Meidlinger](mailto:michael.meidlinger@nt.tuwien.ac.at).
